in this session we are going to discuss
JK flip-flop JK this term has come
against the name Jack Kilby
who is a famous engineer at Texas
Instruments who has invented integrated
circuit in the year 1958 so in case of
JK flip-flop we are going to solve the
race condition of SR  flip flop
we know that race condition of a SR
flip flop was solved in D flip flop by connecting
our inputs through one not gate
but D flip-flop
was having only one input line so two
input combinations are possible that is
0 and 1 so now I want to have if 2 input
flip-flop where the race condition will
be resolved and that is the version we
are observing in JK flip-flop so here is
the respective circuit for us we know
that in case of SR flip flop if we
provide 1 1 as input and when the inner
flip-flop from the clock is getting 1 1
as input then the race condition was
getting restored so now to resolve that
issue
what do you are doing if we provide 1 1
to J and K inputs in in that case also Q
Bar and Q is getting ended with them so
Q or Q bar either one of them will be 0
and another one of them will be 1 so
ultimately the inner flip flop is not
getting 1 1 as input either it will be
getting 0 1 as input or 1 0 as input so
the race condition problem has been
resolved in our JK flip-flop and also
this JK flip-flop is having two inputs J
and K and that's why we can have 4 input
combinations so here is a truth table
for this JK flip-flop so JK and previous
support which will decide the next
output so out of them let us take any
one of them arbitrarily and he shall
show really this truth table is working
fine so let us take this this one
so that means for one one input whether
in where in case of SR flip flop it was
supposed to produce indeterminate
condition here it will be producing one
as output if the output was 0 initially so
let us stress this one on this circuit
so one one for JK and we are having 0
for Q(t) so here will be 1 and let me
check what is the next output coming so
now in this case if I make this clock
pulse 1 so 1 will be coming here 1 is
coming here and 0 is coming here so it
is producing 0 because and gate if one of
the inputs is 0 then output will be 0 in
that case and here we are having 3 1 so
input will be 1 in case of nor gate if
one of the inputs is 1 then output will
be 0 so here will be here it will be 0
so 0 will be coming here 0 or 0 is 0 not
up that 1 so the next value of Q will be
1 and that has been shown in the truth
table so in this way this particular
circuit has been tested for this input
combination at your end you can also
test with other at any input
combinations you can work you can see
that it is working fine on the circuit
so this is the truth table of this
circuit so now let us have the
characteristic equation so I am plotting
this Q(t+1) on this 3 variable
karnaugh map here we are having j and k
Q(t)  so we're having this J K and Q(t)  so
now all of them are in the same sequence
so I am going for 4 here so 0 1 0 0
so 0 1 0 0 here we are having this 1 1 1
0 so 1 1 1 0 so I am finding this so
here I will be getting 1 cover and
another cover will be this one so
ultimately it is nothing but
so Q bar Q(t)  and this one is J and
the last one is this one so in this way
we have got the characteristic equation
of JK flip flop from this truth table
now let us go for the other two table
constructions
so our next table is the characteristic
table where we shall find out what will
be the output when certain input is
known to us so for the 0 0 input
now finding here we are having 0 0 so
the previous support we are getting so I
am writing this one as Q(t ) for 0 1 and
finding this one as 0 for 1 0 I am finding
this one as 1 and for 1 1 I am finding
this one as when it was 0 it will be 1
when it was 1 it will be 0 so it will be
Q Bar T that means the previous output
will get complimented if I provide 1 1 to
J and K inputs so in this way the
character suitable we have done now we
are remaining with the excitation table
in case of excitation table we are
having the supports and for this output
change or transition at the input
combination so 0 0 0 to 0
so finding here 1 0 to 0 finding here 1
0 to 0 so here you are having 0 0 and 0
1 so if we go on combining them so it is
0 and X so here J must be 0 and K can be
0 or 1 anything so next one will be 0 to
1 transition so finding this one here
and finding this one here so here it is
1 0 and here it is 1 1 so 1 is fixed and
0 1 means we can make it X you can make
it X so 1 is fixed and here it is 0 here
it is 1 so I'm making this one X next
is 1 to 0 transition 1 to 0 transition
we are finding here I am finding here so
here it means this one and this one so that
is 0 1 and 1 1 0 means
zero is zero and one means X and 1 and 1
means 1 I can write this one here so I'm
looking for the last one that is 1 1 so
here you are finding this one
combination and finding this combination
here also so it is 0 0 and it is 1 0 so
0 is fixed and 0 1 1 anything can be
applied so I'm making this one as X 0 so
that is the required excitation table
for the JK flip-flop this is the block
diagram of JK flip-flops so here we are
having J and K and clock pulse as input
and Q and Q Bar will be the output
JK flip flop is having one problem here
you see for one one input output will
get complimented so when the output will
get complemented then through the
feedback paths those are put will be
again coming to the inputs and if at
that time if the clock pulse is still on
then again the output will get
complemented and again through the
feedback paths the new outputs will be
coming to the inputs and if the clock
pulses still on then then again the
output will get complimented so as a
result of that multiple times the output
may get complemented if the clock pulse
is remaining high for a certain period
of time which is much much greater than
the delay time of the this feedback
paths so that's why if even number of
times of rolling takes place then output
will not be complemented ultimately at
the end if the rolling is taking place
for odd number of times the output
will get complemented ultimately
so the output will become is
unpredictable so that's why this
condition is known as turn around
condition this particular condition is
known as turn around condition and that
is the basic problem with clocked JK
flip-flop so in the next video we'll be
discussing that is how to resolve this
one using master slave JK flip-flop
thanks for watching this video